---

layout : single
title : "POP 4 - Closures, revisted"
categories : [School Stuff - 2018/2]
tags : [Principles Of Programming, scala]
comment : true

---

### '프로그래밍의 원리' 수업에서 유용한 포인트들을 정리하여 기록하는 글입니다.

---

### Parameterized expression vs. values

Functions defined using “def” are not values but parameterized 
expressions.

• Anonymous functions are values.

• But, parameterized expressions are implicitly converted to values.

• Explicit conversion: f _

• Anonymous functions can be seen as syntactic sugar:

~~~
(x:T)=>e
~~~

is equivalent to 

~~~
{ def __noname(x:T) = e; __noname _ }
~~~

as long as __noname is not used in e.


One can even write a recursive anonymous function in this way.

• Q: what’s the difference between param. exps and function values?

A: functions values are “closures” (ie, param. exp. + env.)

• Q: how to implement call-by-name?

A: The argument expression is converted to a closure.

<br/>

- Example :

~~~
val t = 0
def f(x: => Int) = t + x  // x is treated as x()
val r = {
  val t = 10
  f(t*t)                  // t*t is treated as () => t*t
}
~~~

<br/>

- Clousure, revisited

Let's look at the sample code.

~~~
val t = 0
val f = {
  val t = 10
  def g(x: Int) : Int = x + t
  g _
}
f(20)
~~~

We can change this follwing code, to clarify how closure works.

~~~
val t = 5
def f: Double => Double = {
    val t = 10
    def g(x: Double): Double = x + t
    // if we use 'def g(x:Int): Double' -> ERROR!!
    g _
}
f(20)
~~~

We changed 'f' by using 'def' instead of 'val', and we have to change parameter type and return type of 'g' as well. Otherwise, it causes error!


---

### Forward reference

Let's look at this code.

~~~
{
    val t = 10
    def g(x:Int): Int = x + y + t
    val a = g(0)
    def y = 20 + t
    g(20)
}
~~~

It produces error, in 'y'. (Error message: Wrong Forward Reference)

So, forward reference indicates 2 things. You can use variables not computed(if it is declared by 'def'), but statement using 'val' should not be placed between 'def' statements, when 'def' statement after that is used in 'val' statement's computation.

So, if you move **val a = g(0)** to the next line of **def y = 20 + t**,

~~~
{
    val t = 10
    def g(x:Int): Int = x + y + t
    def y = 20 + t
    val a = g(0)
    g(20)
}
~~~

No error, we get 60 for g(20). This kind of error checking machanism is called "Type Checker".